Matt maybe I'm just losing touch I don't I don't think I have a good sense of
what's gonna be a hit product anymore like I thought Chromebooks would be a
total flop and now they're doing better than ever they're doing so good now we
have these these HDMI sticks are going crazy and yeah yeah you know I mean if
you want to touch on that now I can kind of share okay I mean I think there's
without getting too deep into it I think it really comes down to remember Zombo
remember the promise of Zombo you know I mean garbage hardware with a really
cool idea basically you know it's like gen 2 with a twist you know people
really liked that idea and having experienced it when I saw Chromebooks
come about the idea of that if most of their stuff is stored in something that
they can basically set their you know it's it's idiots proof it's essentially
and I use air quotes for this virus malware free it's it's basically it's
it's what should have been happening all the friggin long I mean it's like I
watch Apple and Microsoft do this for years it's like it's 2015 and their
products are still stupid easy to break we're really easy so that's true this is
dumb this is like dumb like easy easy but aren't we like easy how are we how
do we avoid like so here's what I'm looking at Matt is that so you use this
little hindsight here I'm seeing I'm seeing one two three four if you five so
now the Chrome bits five different manufacturers of these that are six
sorry seven manufacturers that have products that are coming out to the
market right now one of them is Google one of them is Intel obviously those
ones probably have the biggest chance of succeeding but this is getting awfully
complicated this is looking like a mess and another race to the bottom it is a
race to the bottom in a sense but it's also catering to the market of people
that people though we haven't seen anybody wants to do this yet you know I
really think people want to burn an HDMI port on their TV because first of all
who's aged who has enough HDMI ports on their TV I don't well I think I think
the sticks an idiot idea now that to be clear on that I think that's I mean well
that's not a so true if it would work on a monitor yeah not intelligent lots of
monsters have HDMI yeah yeah then that would make sense but if you're plugging
into a TV is just stupid beyond imagination I mean there's it's not an
Android device that would actually allow you to participate in media I mean you
got a plexi put plex on there and up in that business yeah if it works on the
fire stick so you know but if there's the divide between geek and casual users
is wider than ever and it's and it's getting to a point where it's making me
scream because it's like the reason why the Linux on the desktop it continues to
drag its knuckles in my opinion is because people dig in harder and harder
and they you know become archier and archier and it's well you it just isn't
that hard and herpa herpa herpa and it's like yeah it's not that hard for me to
change my oil how to do it not going to you know I mean lots of people know how
to do lots of things but doesn't mean everyone wants to do that all right
everyone wants to learn you know what do you think rotten yeah I was just gonna
say that the HDMI sticks are fantastic if it's like an embedded device like a
media device or something sure yeah yeah that's gonna swear it falls short
there doesn't you're gonna add some I think canonical because they already are
dealing with conversions are going to be the most to benefit from this because
think about it device is people are already like there was yes it was
meaning Linux focus the do the will to get an Ubuntu device that you can maybe
dock it and have your desktop Matt Google's gonna roll this isn't it well
let's say here's the problem it's like I mean I would say for post Google like
people that are not gonna participate in the Google atmosphere yes yeah you know
the Ubuntu stuff will absolutely rock and roll for the rep the other ninety
nine point nine percent of society no it just no one you know especially here in
the state I will say that in Canada or overseas yes what can I do to you what
is Google giving to you Google wants you to keep doing things online
sure do wants you to have the decision right they get marketing yeah yeah yeah
but that hasn't prevented everybody from buying every Chromebook under the Sun
yeah I mean cuz at the end of the day I would get more value from an Ubuntu
device so as as would you sure sure all this would but but unfortunately when I
turn on my television set and or I don't have cable but if I go to someone's
house okay it's a Google commercial or it's a you know or it's Google stuff
it's all marketing that's where Linux and still easier is it for you as a geek
in the family give one of these little device and say hey plug it on the TV
versus giving them that'll be our mission that will be our call just and
that's it that's a good graph I think that's a good grassroots approach
that's the only way you could combat this stuff really is think about the
opportunity here as more and more monitors get HDMI ports that old family
call when you go over there for the holidays and fix up their Windows PC and
then later it was convinced them to install Linux now you just go over to
there you'll go to their you'll go to their house you'll bring one of these
HDMI things it's costing you 60 bucks or whatever they're gonna cost totally
ready to go all set up you sit down you plug into their old monitor and when you
leave you take their old PC with you and they're gonna have a quad-core arm thing
with you know 2 to 4 gigabytes of RAM and 64 gigabytes of storage and you're
gonna have them store everything up on some cloud storage that you like and
everybody's gonna be happy well and the sad part of it is is that Google could
be beaten tomorrow if boots on the ground would pull their heads out of
their butts and actually get these devices in the pants people that's all
it takes it's on the ground it's on but you know we're not there yet that's the
problem Ryan you wanted to add something maybe you say is a bit controversial
well actually I was just wanted to bring up a topic that maybe we could cover
today and that is whether or not Microsoft will buy a Linux company whoa
I well yeah all right well we can we why don't we get to that in a little bit I
think the answer is no I think it's easier for them to just open a Linux
division as they probably already have to contribute to the hypervisor then
buying a company I think I think I think Microsoft would rather only ship
software for iOS than touch the GPL that that much but I mean they'll dabble with
it for for drivers and things like that but I don't think they'd ever ship a
product based on GPL they would as a sock puppet as a sock puppet scenario yes
they would not not publicly they would they have so many legal cases that they
have they have brought against so many companies for their use of Linux and
intellectual properties maybe actually maybe because they technically own that
stuff they would actually be just fine to use it so maybe I know it just seems
like it would bring a lot of things into question in Washington they're one of
the big Linux hiring people right now this comes up because I was watching how
much they're cuddling up close I'm sorry to derail the topic I think that the
crumbits are non-starter but the they're cuddling up real close to Ubuntu with
their cloud offerings and maybe they just have to do that because Ubuntu is
a big player and you know those deployment and those situations but but
it just got me thinking if they were gonna buy up a a Linux vendor it would
be open Sousa first of all open Sousa's you know I mean open Sousa has a lot of
government incentive right now not to be sold open Sousa though has a very strong
relationship with Microsoft they have those they have existing collaboration
research labs or at least they used to and additionally they have a lot of
great contracts like Walmart that Microsoft would love to be involved in a
lot of those contracts were sold in conjunction with the Microsoft
virtualization platform so they really go hand-in-hand Sousa is often sold as
like if you want to use a Microsoft platform but have Linux virtual machines
use hyper use a hyper V and opens and Sousa Enterprise inside the virtual
machine and it's really been like the package so it'd be a great fit for
Microsoft plus to be honest with you if you followed all at all what's happening
with the parent companies of open Sousa and Sousa Enterprise I mean aren't they
owned now by a company that does mainframe interface softwares I can't
remember now yeah let's talk about cloud cloud services and what what's been
deployed Ubuntu has been deployed all over the place I think I think Amazon
would never own that I don't think Amazon would ever let Microsoft take
Ubuntu away there's too much ec2 running on top of Ubuntu there's too many other
services running on that point they will just point I don't I think if
Microsoft was gonna ever buy a Linux distribution I think it's got to be
Novell because they've got all right I mean it's got to be it's got to be open
it's got to be Sousa because they have all those deals from the Novell era yeah
it seems like that would be the natural fit you know and I don't think they'd
ever buy a Linux distribution I don't think they'd ever buy it I think it's
they would basically do what they do with a lot of things and it's a kind of
a Disney Star Wars kind of scenario to where you start off by infusing capital
into something I could see that being maybe you know what I would see it as is
I would see it as a custom distro built to run on Azure it'd be like the Azure
Linux it'd be like the Azure Linux reference platform or something and it
would be like Linux as an API on to Azure like abstract yourself away from
all of the challenges of Linux and we'll have a managed Linux system for you on
Azure and that and then eventually you'll be able to spin that up on a
Hyper-V server on your own local LAN when they when they make the on-premises
version Chris you're kind of we're doing it in your jokey voice I don't think it's
I don't like after kind of following them recently and thinking about it from
this point of view I don't think it'd be all that crazy if they did play somehow
with Azure in the Linux game and if that's a purchase or if that's just a
really close partnership with somebody I wouldn't well I mean they're gonna they
have the Azure stats they were gonna I mean maybe if anybody in the chat room
has a link maybe Microsoft publishes it but I think they have a pretty
respectable amount of Linux instances running on Azure right now so they're
gonna watch that you know and they're gonna know how many of those are Ubuntu
kernels how many of those are Red Hat Enterprise Linux kernels are sent to us
or whatever the hell Microsoft offers and they're gonna be watching those
numbers and you know they've got to be thinking well geez I don't really want
to make Azure a platform to make Ubuntu a more dominant cloud platform I mean
that's got to be on their mind right that's exactly where I was coming from I
saw some stats I'm not sure they were the final stats or anything but they had
a ton of Linux you know installations and I have to think that the decision
makers see that and they're like well I don't know that we're gonna unseat this
with Windows so that's where my speculation comes from and so I thought I
would just have that conversation with you because I think it's an interesting
one to have yeah good point and you know if it ever happens somebody will find
this clip up from episode 87 and to be like wow Ryan totally called it welcome
to Linux Unplugged your weekly Linux talk show that's speed testing all of the
mirrors like a maniac my name is Chris and my name is Matt hey there Matt you
know it's the first thing I got to do after I get a new installation is I get
the reflector package installed and then I go test all of the mirrors and I got
to make sure that I gotta be sure I'm getting the best speed possible right
and of course all I for all I know it's like random look at the draw that night
that's what the routes happen to work out and I got a good connection I could
be getting like a horrible server for all I know but I feel like I feel like
if I if I do if I make that as my first maneuver after a fresh install then I'm
setting myself up for the best speed for all the rest of the packages I have to
pull down well I think it also sets a tone for how the rest of your
experience is gonna end up I am optimizing for performance man
absolutely so yeah this week on the Linux Unplugged show after we get
through some follow-up for some very interesting stories that actually
managed to break between Sunday and Tuesday that are relevant to things and
topics we have followed up on and covered on this show for a long time
we'll cover those are real quick plus a real quick Linux fest Northwest update
coming up and then the new Dell XPS 13 developer edition the version that of a
laptop that I bought but is actually targeted for Linux users we'll tell you
about that and maybe what's the difference and sort of something they've
done differently and why us US purchasers are going to be a little
jelly so that'll be coming up and then later in the show I'll talk about my
number one boo my baby my bae I think that's actually what the kids say now
it's my Linux rig my number one office workstation died over the weekend and if
I have gotten bit by a bug that a lot of you could get bit by if you are
upgrading to kernel 3.19 and you use you use butter fs so tell you about that
coming up in the show and get everybody's input on what I should do on
a fresh install because I'm kind of curious I'm going totally different file
systems totally different hard drive setup different software stack it's to
some degree so tell you about what I've done so far and what some of the great
advice I've gotten some of the packages that I've loved people have submitted to
our subreddit that I should install so all of that will be coming up including
the case for my new file system which I think you guys may be interested in and
then on the latter half of the show a couple of guys from don't call it the
evolve OS project no no call it soloist solace well I'll get the actual
pronunciation from them coming up in a little bit that's right the very distro
we talked about last week ran into some troubles and it was no April Fool's at
least I don't think and they've had to rename their project and rename their
community and we'll get the straight skinny on them and what happens when a
little distro gets the hard legal hard hand of the law the legal strong arm
whatever the hell that is so it's a big this is an each this is I know you call
this unplugged Matt this feels pretty plugged but that it feels quite plugged
it also feels like they got almost got plugged yeah really that's a good one
Matt I just want to cover a couple of really quick follow-up stories before we
jump into some of the topics on this Sunday's Linux action show we got to see
Noah go behind the scenes on some of his client calls and resolve some wireless
issues and all using Linux and supporting Linux in these businesses and
go figure of course timing had to be the way it is I one of the software's
packages that we featured in there for managing the Wi-Fi ubiquity has come out
and getting in with getting in trouble for GPL violation this is a post over at
Liberty BSD net and there we go get a nice frame for you guys in the video
version and they've they've identified a couple of different ways that they
appear to be maybe even willfully of violating the GPL I haven't totally
looked into this yet but I just want to give you a disclaimer as a piece of
software we did mention in the show yesterday there has been a bit of hoopla
that came up as a result and so I want to make the audience aware for it and
all the links of that in the show notes if if you saw ubiquity which looked
pretty awesome and Matt I don't know if you caught the the piece that Noah did
but in there he's using ubiquity to essentially I believe centrally manage a
bunch of Wi-Fi access points and create one flat Wi-Fi network where access
points are distributed throughout a hotel building but it's all one
continuous network so people can move around and they automatically can
provision each other and and and and increase and decrease signal strength so
there's not too much overlap and wow yeah it's it's a pretty amazing piece of
software but it seems to keep falling into problems so actually it looks like
vertinda has used this before so let's bring in the mumble room hey mumble room
time of probes greetings and welcome to Linux unplugged hey guys so let's start
with vert there so vert you've used this before and no we're not talking about
the Ubuntu installer are we vert that was your cue man you said you had
something to say yeah no I've used before in a private school with a friend
of mine who's the IT manager and the cool thing about ubiquity apart from the
price and reliability of it is it does have this really quite nice
management consoles that's available for Windows and for Linux that gives you
things like you know one-click deployment and automatic configuration
and stuff like that the only thing that I was a little bit concerned about
though is how it does this because the only way can possibly do it out of the
box when you take one of these new devices you put it on the network is it
must have some sort of SSH key that the server uses to log into whichever
device it finds to be able to configure it properly because it seems to
automatically do that Carol without any kind of authentication I wonder if it
just is it is it not just like a boot like a DHCP boot thing where it like
boots up off the network and it gets a firmware from the from the central
control machine and no because it can be what it can be activating the K on a
closed network I once far walled out from the outside oh interesting this is
the way this is the weird thing about it so I suspect okay and I was gonna put a
wire shark monitor on it but we were pressed for time when we installed me
stuff I suspect Carol they uses something like a secure sugar shell key
to log into the device care I'd configure it or to get some sort
configuration information that pulls them from the server well I suppose we
probably would have the answer just out there in the audience so if anybody out
there in the audience knows and wants to follow up with us so we'd be curious how
do they do that how do they do that provision even when it's behind a
firewall that's a good question I got one more follow-up story and this one's
definitely a show me the money we've talked about core OS and I think it's a
pretty cool project and they're getting even more money now core OS has raised
12 million dollars what the core what distribution is probably the dollars
that's pretty respectable yeah they now 12 million dollars around a funding as
well as a new product called tectonic that is based on Google's Cooper notes I
don't know what that is sorry my sorry coop Kubernetes what's Cooper Knights
guys you know what that is Kubernetes what is it guys how come I don't know
about it nobody knows okay it's apparently an open source project for
container orchestration but I have no idea like if it's like I guess must work
with like different work containers I guess I don't know sounds like marketing
speak yeah I'm sure it's like it manages all the different container tech and
everybody's got to make their own container orchestration system and of
course Google's got to make their own core OS is now sitting at a total of 20
million in funding it doesn't surprise me at all actually considering that
Greg is participating in that project he's just you know the stable release
kernel maintainer anyone wants to jump on that yeah yeah they got they got
great people behind it they have a pretty clear idea and they've actually
got a pretty important problem they're trying to solve to Oh Cooper Nets dot IO
thank you uh okay well I'm gonna take a look at that right now you know that's
what I love about having a frickin chairman how cool is this thank you
Micah 89 I will definitely read up on this so manage a cluster of Linux
containers as a single system to accelerate dev and simplify ops oh boy
doesn't that feel good mmm let's do it again manage a cluster of
Linux containers as a single system to accelerate dev and simplify ops oh that's
good good job dude that's really nice so yeah I'll check that out after the show
thanks very much I'll try to put a link to that in the show notes too huh well
you know good for core OS and I wonder if it puts any heat on Docker because
that remember core OS is working on rocket and some things it's kind are a
bit competitive with the Docker group so in a way it's sort of also kind of
helping seed some some competitive competition to the Docker guys oh there's
one thing for unless Docker guys screw it up they have the market first thing
and they already have the this initial work to get it actually working on
Windows and Mac and that is an appealing thing for a lot of people yeah I totally
agree about I totally agree with you on their docker's already got the market
they've already got sort of the industrial support they've ever got red
hat behind them they've got Microsoft behind them they've got the staffing the
funding but that doesn't mean there isn't room for an alternative and and if
you think about it from like from the standpoint of some of these big
infrastructure shops you're definitely gonna want some competition out there
definitely I wouldn't like if the doctor was completely overwhelmingly the choice
because then you know they would kind of corner the market and they would
control it right and you know you're not saying that they would do anything wrong
but you know you know well well Ryan you have Ryan you have concerns about
Docker right yeah the apparently just the way docker's built there there are
quite a few innate security vulnerability which I think in their
defense they're trying to address but rocket thinks it can it can really beat
out docker there and and rocket is the container technology that core OS is
working on and then I think they can make the best case to enterprises saying
we're way more secure than this is way more secure than docker and so if you're
gonna trust somebody trust us and that's really where they where somebody needs
to win is in the enterprise yeah space I wonder if we don't think I'll go ahead
so I'm sorry but I see what I see is that what is the market value
proposition of you know core OS and rocket versus Docker is that includes a
lot of kernel maintainers and so if there is a need to change in the kernel
it's easier done through that project interesting doctor that is a nice
advantage then yes that's I think that's them the market proposition that they
have
ham you have some feedback so go ahead and I want you to mute your mic take it
that's sorted out there thank you honestly doctor already has a market
chair yeah and it already has a product that is working well and I I kind of go
with the chat room is saying though docker has even if even if you know
let's just pick a company like rack space let's say rack space decided we're
gonna standardize on rocket and you can use docker if you want to roll your own
system with you know different rack space options but you know they're gonna
standardize on rocket but I I wouldn't be surprised maybe some big
infrastructure companies go rocket and then when people are discussing
standardizing software development when people are on redhat enterprise 7 but
they need to develop for also redhat enterprise 5 when people need to
distribute software across their network on Linux boxes of different diversions
I think docker could play a pretty significant role there when people want
to roll infrastructure on top of these containers I think rocket might play a
more significant role there potentially maybe that'll happen yeah it shakes out
here's the other thing I'm not a hundred percent sure and I haven't inspected
myself like I did with docker on how actually rocket implement certain
measures but docker does have these thing that the distribution scene still
plays a role right you still have the ubuntu docker and you still have the
fedora docker container what happens to the distribution if rocket decides to go
the other way not sure maybe then the distribution can let matters last and if
your point of sale is you know bringing these experience together you want to
promote that environment let me tell you why why it's important in any respect is
for instance we here where I work run most of the websites and in her
libraries in Kansas so unless they're a really big library they host a website
with us and the problem has become that everybody wants to run something
different some people want WordPress on Drupal some people want to run you know
random stuff over here and they require different versions of PHP or they require
different stacks and Ruby versions of everything and then they want web apps
they're like can't we offer genealogy web apps can't we offer it etc etc and
so what we're having to do is instead of spinning up a new VM every single time
somebody wants you know some new web application spun up at all of these
libraries instead I just use you know some hosts or core OS at the moment and
then I sped up whatever you know container is on that I give that to them
I say yours do what you want with it you know and if if you break it it's yours
you know absolutely but when you look at how many developers are developing
are getting something it's easier to at least at this moment and from what I've
seen for more people are targeting Docker now these may be wrong these may
be just a misinterpretation of no I think it's pretty clear and I think it
will probably remain like that for a while all right well that's probably
enough container discussion for one episode I know half the audience probably
doesn't give a crap about containers the other half does and so hopefully we've
entertained at least one half but I find it to be obvious that the Linux
container space for some reason is on fire even though BSD's and Solaris have
had it for a long time just goes to show you doesn't matter I don't know what it
is like they just like they don't get the traction like the people just don't
care but Linux does it all of a sudden it's a huge deal it's a multi-million
dollar industry and you've got multiple different companies now that are getting
multi-million dollar fundings and inspiring weak as a GP yeah maybe
because maybe because of the GPL I don't know maybe it's been it's very
interesting because I know the BSD guys are going like hello this lairs guys
like yeah well we had zones back in the 90s back when you guys were learning
arithmetic we were putting stuff up in zones so I don't know I think it's just
I think it's just the fact that Linux has the traction it's sort of like
Linux has the market advantage Linux is the cloud OS for the world yeah Docker
hub doesn't hurt either right that makes a big difference you're right and you
know I will add and this I think is I think Docker proves to us how critical
and now rocket to but Docker starts to talk Docker proves to us how critical
closing that 10% gap is taking what can be set up by an admin with comp files
and some kernel features and closing that uncanny valley to where it is
automated and I'm checking things in and out sort of git style and I can I you
know it has an API I can write to and a community around it and a company all of
those things are fundamentally important to market adoption and I believe that is
why the BSD's never closed the gap they never got excitement because there was
just that 10% and that is so often in open source where we get we get almost
all the way there 90% we all of us in the community we see the beauty of it
and we'll put it in production I'll be in production for years look at look at
jails in production for you Jupiter broadcasting comm has been running in a
BSD jail for like three years now right I mean it has been a thing in production
for a long time nobody gives a crap because honestly they didn't close the
10% I think that makes the difference in my that's my suspect and we can
obviously SS GPL yes it's Linux yes it's the market adoption of Linux all of
these are core components but making it something that I could I mean just as an
example I've never demonstrated setting up a jail or a Linux container you know
I've never shown you the power of LXC on the Linux action show before but when
Docker was a brand new spankin thing one of the first things we did is I sat down
with my arch box and I set up an Ubuntu environment in my arch box and I was
like check this out and I do it by doing this and then I issue this command and
it starts the environment and I issue this command and it starts an
application in that environment and it thinks it's on an Ubuntu box box and I
that was that was impressive because you could wrap your brain around it it was
productizable and that made the difference and I think now here we are
a couple of years later and these guys are making millions of dollars so
basically you're saying that it's a matter of being presentable option a
option B which one is presentable to a VC closing that gap right well what
making it usable making it usable by more people but by closing that gap they
they they they broke through several layers of markets right they went
through the hot they've they broke through the very high-end sysadmin to
your average system sysadmin even your own freaking enthusiasts to your
employee who works at Red Hat who's not even really all that he's a sales guy
but he knows he's got to use Red Hat so he used now he's using Docker to your
developer level right and you broke through all of these different markets
when you made it that much easier and that was what it took but that's the
hardest part is that final 10% well and 90% of sales is presentation boom
all right well before we go too far actually this would be a good spot to
mention DigitalOcean you know they'll take they use the hell out of Docker and
also CoreOS in fact they work directly with the CoreOS project they I guess
CoreOS provides these official channels to platform providers like DigitalOcean
I mean I might be getting some of the terminology wrong this is kind of my
rough understanding is they have these different channels and so DigitalOcean
is like they get it straight from the tap they get it right from the tap core
from the CoreOS project and then what's beautiful about the CoreOS design is
obviously you continue to roll the base OS keep the applications in a container
Bob's your uncle you're not even worrying about your application breaking
meanwhile your security updates are getting applied it's a beautiful thing
now let me tell you a little about DigitalOcean sponsor of the Linux
unplugged program because I want you to go over there and try them it's really
awesome they're all based on Linux using KVM for the virtualizer SSDs for the IO
so you have super fast IO tier 1 bandwidth the data centers all over the
world that's DigitalOcean in a snapshot but what's really important is the value
it's it's crazy so keep two things in mind as we go forward all Linux powered
SSD power right boom that's hot and actually here's a third thing we can get
you two months for free with DO unplugged so I guess keep three things
in mind do unplugged too so what is DigitalOcean they're a simple cloud
hosting provider dedicated to offering the most intuitive and easy way for you
to spin up your own cloud server that you're gonna get root access with an
HTML 5 console you're gonna be able to start in less than 55 seconds seriously
and pricing plans are only five dollars a month that's your starting price
they get you 512 megabytes of RAM a 20 gigabyte SSD one CPU and a terabyte of
transfer and their pricing plans are really logical they just step up from
there really simple and they have data centers in New York San Francisco
Singapore Amsterdam and London you just get to pick from them they're gorgeous
but it's really the DigitalOcean interface this is this is the this is
the final piece I was just talking about closing that 10% this is did this is the
same exact thing right they recognize that KVM is incredible and that Linux is
a great platform to build a business on top of okay that's not that's not very
much of a surprise to anybody listening to this show that's kind of obvious they
recognize that incredibly fast data center connections are gonna be key to a
finicky audience okay a little bit more insight required there but not too
surprising that's pretty good I'll give them credit though for making sure they
got that part right but the part that they really figured out is you can have
all of those things but if you don't make it insanely easy to do it and also
very accessible so they've made a very straightforward API in fact they just
launched version 2.0 of their API and they give you access to everything you
can do in the control panel the community's already done a ton of stuff
around this API so you can just take advantage of it if you're just like a
lazy schmo like I am I'm not gonna write anything to the API I don't need to but
this is where they closed the gap they took the Linux technology they took
SSDs they took those incredible data centers and they wrapped it all together
in this amazing intuitive control panel and you can replicate this control panel
with that API so you've never even wanted to use it you could just plug it
into your existing management infrastructure or just write bash
scripts all day long I hear from people they just integrated into the
prescripts before they run a system upgrade so that way they have the API
execute a system snapshot and then the system snapshot completes and then it
continues on with the package manager upgrade that's a pretty straightforward
update and this isn't taking like 15 minutes to put together in the scripts
available in the digital ocean community you can go read all about it go over to
digital ocean comm and on top of all of that they've got some of the best
tutorials in the industry they've hired editing staff to make sure they're
top-notch so you can really get a lot of value out of your droplet do unplug go
use that get a $10 credit try out digital ocean two months for free digital
ocean comm big thanks digital ocean for sponsoring the Linux Unplugged program
you guys mm-hmm oh I know it Matt oh I know it so I have been waiting for a
long time to see the final version of the Dell XPS 13 developer edition as
they call it drop because I had made a I took a big big risk and I ordered the
Windows Edition which I normally would never condone because I hate buying a
Windows license sure but I wanted to get on it early so that way by the time this
laptop had hit for the Linux users I would hopefully have a good amount of
time using this as a you know machine that I spend you know at least half my
day on something you know I can have a pretty substantial opinion on it as a
machine and of course that the first the first flaw the first wall I hit was the
Wi-Fi I just about to say your first thing you do is yank out the broad com
something I don't know I don't know what it was I don't it was like Dell branded
I don't even know what it was really you know it's probably right yeah and I
think there was like a way to make it work if I downloaded some anyways no man
I just exactly I just ordered an Intel cuz it's PCI Express slots you just pop
off the bottom and you know those little mini laptop PCI Express slots and I just
popped off the bottom I put it an Intel 7000 series Wi-Fi in there which is a
great chip and includes Bluetooth and all that kind of stuff so that was the
main thing I ran into but what I really wanted to start to get my head around
was how the hell does Linux do with high DPI displays because I think 2015 is a
year of high DPI you got the a lot of the different high-end laptop lines are
doing high DPI got some desktop lines are doing it Dell's got their 4k monitor
it's gonna happen I guess LG's been talking about an 8k monitor they're
getting into manufacturing now 8k so I really wanted to know how the XPS held
up and the prices are out it's available right now in the UK it'll be
available next week in the US damn it oh enjoy guys so it starts at 949 for the
base price nine hundred forty nine dollars US you get an i5 and then it
works its way all the way up to 1849 then you get a nice seven three
gigahertz 13.3 inch which is edge to edge display it's pretty nice they call
it the infinity display 512 gigabyte solid display Intel graphics it's the
550 so it's pretty good that graphics I can about here I so I can tell you so if
you're interested in getting this laptop this ships with a buntu 1404 I'll tell
you this a couple of things it is definitely the best display I've ever
seen on a laptop it's sort of amazing a few weeks into it now I've I've just
stopped kind of being like holy god this thing's incredible but for the first few
weeks I was like this looks like a picture like a painting is sitting in my
screen yeah it was really wow you know Linux is definitely not ready for high
dpi X seems to struggle with it a lot of applications don't look right in there
or they have some tweaking that needs to be done in my opinion gnome 3 does the
best job right now I haven't tried unity a lot too but the unity seems to be from
from the discussions I have had with had with the audience unity you know you go
in there has a dpi slider and it seems that seems to work pretty well for a lot
of people so I bet 1404 will look fine on it your applications will look tiny
though see that was my question it's like it's like you could have the
desktop environments just nailed down to a button and that's great but when you
bring in an application that's incompatible just kind of feels like it
defeats the purpose I don't know yeah you can't put more than eight gigs of
RAM in it either so here's the other thing Matt well so yeah you know cuz
everything's getting scaled up to such a high resolution that your computer ends
up working pretty hard so normally something that wouldn't really tax a
taxing machine of this level of power ends up being a little more work than it
should be so like playing a if you play a video like a YouTube video or something
like that your fans kick on you if you have a lot of text scrolling across the
screen and you know your fans kick on so it definitely is powerful enough for the
whole desktop environment to feel very accelerated and the performance wise the
desktop environment works well I've been able to play some games okay if I hook
up a second monitor I can't play any games no game I'm sure some games like
torchlight to play just fine I've even been able to play Borderlands the
pre-sequel on it actually fairly successfully at full resolution with
things turned down but yeah I think I think it's a very good laptop I think
it's well built I don't I still don't fully know if I would go with Dell I has
unfortunately for me a few drawbacks that I haven't been able to fully
resolve on my model I don't know about the developer edition for me the sound
is not currently working I believe there is a way to fix that I would suspect
it's based on some grub flags and things like that maybe black listen a module I
would bet right there are two addition already has that done so it might be if
you were yeah so if you're gonna wipe this it might undo that you could go
make that modification yourself so like right now my sound doesn't work I don't
really care because I use a USB sound card for anything I do seriously so I
haven't fixed that so that's one thing to consider and also the trackpad you
can make again adjustments but the trackpad is not awesome I don't I just
don't like the way it feels I don't like the way it clicks I don't really like
the size of it it's just a little bit too small and every now and then I just
like it it senses a touch when my hand is maybe it hasn't touched it but it's
hovering too close to the trackpad like when I'm typing and I hate that it
causes me to mess up constantly and all of the extensions I have had tried to
turn off the trackpad don't actually turn off the trackpad I used to have a
touch pad script and it's literally just a bash script you run that actually
might help with that yeah maybe that'd be cool yeah send it to me if you have
that what was that puppy um Barton's put on his blog post that the a01 BIOS makes
the trackpad a lot better ah I should totally do a BIOS update huh thank you
good tip you know what I'll tell you a couple of things the battery life is
pretty good I think I get about seven hours or so they say 15 hours I think
something like that on their website they give you some real bullshit number
it feels lighter than 2.8 pounds is it dual core well it depends on which one
you get right because they has i5 up to i7 I think all of the i7s are still
dual core though oh really oh I didn't know that they do have anyone that's
branded as an HQ in the i7 is going to be a quad anything with the you yeah
designation is going to be dual core there you go so and then it's for with
hyper threading I guess okay yep yeah and and and the other thing I think is a
little late a little weak is your solid you're set at your your hard set at 8
gigabytes of RAM which is oh that's kind of I mean I guess for okay for Joe
average that's fine but it's still limiting because you don't know where
you're gonna be a couple years down the road maybe you need more yeah yeah yeah
and poppy so how does how does the whole sp1 thing work with Ubuntu I I think of
it as I think that's just that's just 1404 point one it's the point release
that we do that has the hardware enablement kernel and updated X or
that's just Dell lingo for it then yeah it's just what they they've called
confusing why confused yeah yeah mm-hmm anything about getting one it's back on
my list of possible laptops now that my think pads gone out of warranty yeah
and you are in like the like the corporate sanctioned purchase window
right yes yeah yeah once you've been economical three years you get a chunk of
change to again spend on whatever laptop you want and so that's on my list along
with the X the think pad x1 carbon and a couple of others I just got an email
over the weekend that I will be getting the libram rev2 soon yes shoe hey Matt
Pope has a very interesting theory that he shared with me today during tech talk
today have you noticed have you been to elementary.io have you seen this not
actually I think it was just the other day I mean elementary.io has a countdown
for three days 18 hours 17 minutes and 33 seconds as we record this show and
people have been sort of guessing what they think it is some people think it
could be a Freya release that would be my theory because I mean really what
else would it be. Wimpy do you have any theories on on oh rotten you were gonna
say something go ahead rotten I'll let you put it out there first. It just could be a new
website okay new website okay Wimpy do you have a theory on what it could be
no okay all right I just don't want cuz I think I'm just gonna guess it's RC1
okay RC1 says Josh okay go ahead Wimpy nothing oh no I don't have a theory I
have no idea. All right okay Popey go ahead you say it
Popey you do it you go ahead Popey say what you think it is. So given that the
Daniel for a recently left system 76 to focus on elementary full-time and
bearing in mind that recently they landed something called captive login
in elementary so that when you're in a cafe or hotel or airport or something
it makes it easier for you to get through captive portal internet
connections that makes me think that they're doing a hardware partnership for
a laptop I think it's going to be a ultrabook style beautiful laptop
pre-installed with elementary. I think that's totally it I think you nailed it
when you mentioned that of course he you know formerly worked at system 76 now
he's working there and you look at the good work that Wimpy's doing for the
Ubuntu Mate project where they're gonna have some hardware hopefully soon
and of course the Mint project has the hardware this is becoming a thing like
Popey Popey you have been observing this for a little while and I think you're
absolutely nailing it this is a thing and they in all of their promo shots
they always have this very nice looking sort of is it a MacBook is it not a
MacBook generic looking laptop I went a step further I thought wouldn't it be
cool if the new Librem 13 was working with the elementary guys and it was
gonna be like the exclusive way to get the Librem 13 like the 13 inch version
of the Librem 15. I'm speculating this based on you know just guesswork and I
think that yeah part of it is if he's left system 76 he's done so so that
he's not you know he's not competing with them with his own company I think
it would make sense for him to leave but I was even aware he worked at system 76
I thought it was a Cassidy that worked there it is they both did yeah yeah and
Cassidy is now working full-time for elementary OS right as of was that no I
don't know that was Daniel yeah that was Daniel Cassidy still at system 7 yeah so
who knows we'll have to wait a few days and see mm-hmm yes three days to be
precise just leave the counter running I know right you know I don't think it's
gonna be a go ahead you don't think it's gonna be
hardware I don't think it's gonna be a Librem exclusive though no no it might
be hardware but I don't think it will be Librem because they they've announced
that they're going to ship with school yeah yeah I was just having fun cuz they
have a whole new website on their beta dot elementary dot IO which could be it
has a store page it's only for t-shirts and stickers at the moment it would be
ideal to stick a laptop there or it could just be crowdfunded campaign for a
laptop maybe maybe that would yeah or maybe they're just gonna update their
website integrate their patreon you have to be careful because you burn some
serious capital when you do these announcements and if it doesn't go
anywhere yeah no doing it for a website is a mistake it's it's a 101 mistake
it's no you don't know that'd be funny to follow up on that next week though
so I yes the solid and continuous drum beat drum beat drum beat goes on for
Linux fest Northwest 2015 April 25th and 26 Linux fest Northwest 2015 April 25th
and 26 because I want to see that so that's why I keep talking about it I
just have a really quick update I thank you to everybody who went to meetup.com
slash Jupiter broadcasting we now have 77 people there I'm gonna declare the
meetup officially a success and we're gonna keep it around in fact 79 of you
now as I refresh the page have gone to meetup.com slash Jupiter broadcasting and
that's a good thing because guess what Linux unplugged if I'm the hold on I'm
gonna do some quick math so if I'm wrong forgive me but I think as we do episode
87 that would technically mean assuming we don't miss a week right episode 100
is a lucky 13 weeks away and if I am doing my math correctly I think that
puts us like early July like July 7th let's see what today is yeah that was
plausible okay so I'm thinking around then we do episode 100 in person and we
organized here on this meetup page meetup.com slash Jupiter broadcasting
will celebrate episode 100 of Linux unplugged in person if everything goes
as planned and we will coordinate on this meetup page right now it's Linux
fest Northwest in the future it'll be events when we travel to your area and
things like episode 100 of Linux fest or I'm sorry 100 of Linux unplugged and of
course the chat room probably double-check my math for me it's a
rough idea though so I'm really glad I'm really happy like with 70 80 people I
think that's totally worth keeping that meetup even though there's a monthly fee
it seems pretty worth it to me so I think so yeah thanks everybody and I
can't wait to see those you're gonna make it to Linux fest and we'll do
updates for Linux fest there boy episode 100 lucky 13 weeks I think that's right
I think that's right it's been an amazing ride and one of the reasons
we're able to get that far is because of our next sponsor and that's Ting go to
linux.ting.com why well because putting Linux in your browser's URL bars awesome
and putting linux.ting.com in there supports this show and gets you a
$25 discount off your first ting device or if you have a ting compatible device
you're gonna get some ting service credits oh I'm sorry did I get ahead of
myself I thought you knew cuz it's so awesome ting is mobile that makes sense
as my mobile service provider I've been using ting for over two years and I love
it I just recently got up on the ting GSM beta and my Nexus 5 my Nexus 5 is
like dual personalities like all of a sudden it's what it's just what all its
whole life is walking around talking CDMA though city made this city made
that's better with the trees Pacific Northwest has trees CDMA is better and
then one day ting releases the GSM sim for $9 well ting's got no contracts no
termination fees and you only pay for what you use so I was like well what's
the cost $9 I could try out the GSM and I'm really out almost nothing so I got
the GSM sim pop it in my Nexus 5 set that bad boy up for GSM and now all of
a sudden my Nexus 5 is a totally new person it's walking and talking GSM
putting CDMA down like a clown it's ridiculous I feel empowered because I've
got everything it's unlocked it's my Nexus 5 I'm paying just for what I use
ting just takes my minutes my messages my megabytes they add them all up at the
end of the month whatever bucket I fall into that's all I got to pay and they
have a great control panel that lets me manage all of that I nickname my devices
so I know when Rekai's been calling the ladies too much or if I've been
downloading too much Spotify while I drive between the studio I can manage
all of that stuff using my ting dashboard and if I ever get stuck I
don't worry because they got don't hold customer service you just call them at
one eight five five ting FTW anytime between 8 a.m. or 8 p.m. and a real human
being answers the phone they're empowered to solve your problems they're
not just a bunch of drones that read a script that ain't how ting roll they're
like hey you're a phone geek oh you are passionate about phones here's an idea
why don't you work supporting phones you like Android alright sucker sit here
no I'm kidding I love you guys I just could never do it that's why I love you
guys one eight five five ting FTW try it you can talk to a real human being and
after all of that after all of that if you go to linux.ting.com right now and
you already have a compatible device and chances are you do because they have so
many GSM devices you get a $25 service credit but you're like Chris bro man I
made a mistake I went over to this duopoly I signed up for this horrible
contract where they extort money out of me I feel like a clown I'm like man I
hear you here's the thing ting has an early termination relief program what
yes an early termination relief program they'll help you pay to get out of your
contract because you know why ting frickin hates contracts they're silly go
to linux.ting.com and a big thanks to ting for sponsoring the Linux unplugged
program oh man those guys loving it I'm telling you though I I'm feeling like
I'm ready to upgrade to a Cadillac the Samsung s6 is calling my name I want to
put that s all over the ting network I tell you what
yeah I'm looking at actually investing in one of those little GSM do here case
because I got an old razor you know in conjunction with my existing ting phone
I have this old razor it's like well this might be kind of a nice you know
that's a backup phone I was thinking if I don't go s6 if I don't go Cadillac why
don't I do this feature phone with battery for days because ting you go
ting for like under 70 bucks so I get a feature phone with battery for days and
then I get a Nexus 9 with the GSM SIM put the ting GSM SIM in the Nexus 9 so
I do my telegramming my hangouts my web browsing on the Nexus 9 and I do my my
old-school phone calls which I do like two or three a day of tops maybe from my
old-school flip phone with battery for days I'm just saying I could do it I why
not make sense okay so I had a real rough day I came in and I could not get
my computer to start I sat down at my desk turned on the nice aces monitor
that I am quite proud of acquiring I stare at a screen and it's nothing but
errors Matt nothing and if you're watching the video version of the
unplugged program I'm gonna pull those errors up on my screen right now it was
devastating it starts as this booting the Linux kernel starting version 218
oh yeah you know what that is and then hold on a second info task mount 175
blocks for more than 120 seconds uh-oh uh-oh task butter fs transaction 197
blocked for more than 120 seconds uh-oh and that's all it ever did and then I
now now of course so here's Chris's here's Chris's conundrum Chris has a
show he has to go to and he needs a computer right now like I do not have
really like so my so here's what runs through my head when my most important
computer doesn't boot I think to myself well I should go grab a live USB stick
and probably boot in there if I can get the main OS up and just you know maybe
true in there and get everything I need and then fix it later like I'm starting
thinking like maybe I could like zombify this thing and like prop it up and like
get in there get my work done for the day and then like get out before the
whole thing collapses out from underneath me and I'm like yeah I'm not
gonna do that okay so I'm starting to think okay what are my other options
well I just the night before installed Ubuntu Mate 1504 beta 2 I think it is
right now I think that's the current one yes yes and and so I had a USB stick
already flashed I love you know what also props to Ubuntu Mate really I think
the only distro where you just go to their website and the download links and
they and and you put DD rescue up there the command to run and you just make it
real clear use DD rescue to write this to ISO to a thumb drive everybody else
always recommends DD and a lot of times they don't just clearly put the command
right there above the download links it makes it so clear and in fact that you
also update the name of the ISO image so you literally could just copy that whole
command is is just brilliant it is so helpful because I myself always end up
using DD and I forget to use DD rescue which is way better to write an ISO file
to a flash drive so anyways props to Mate so I had this thumb stick ready to
go and I needed to get working right here right now so I stick the Ubuntu
Mate 1504 USB thumb drive into my rig I reboot and I get into the desktop
environment it's pretty snappy in fact it's unbelievably snappy it's so fast
that I was I was grousing to Rekai who was standing over me because I'm you
know he's he's trying to console me as I'm in as I'm as I'm as I have been
mortally wounded and I'm sitting and and and this gray screen comes up and I
start grousing oh man now I gotta wait for the fancy grub screen to render
because that because this monitor is so large that anytime there's a big
graphical grub screen comes up it slowly paints onto my screen and I'm sitting
here grousing about that and what I realized was is that actually wasn't the
case at all it what I thought was the grub screen was actually x11 starting it
had booted so fast that I thought I was waiting for grub but I was actually
waiting for the entire desktop it was amazing it boots so fast it was so cool
so I was like alright install I'm like after that I was like that's it that's
all I needed I just needed my computer to be really fast I just want to get
back to work as fast as possible I've got to do some clipping and so I I
installed Ubuntu Mate on my main workstation this is my rig up in my
office and I used it for a couple of days a day I think I used it for a day
actually and I ran into a couple of issues first of all I'm just I'm here's
the here's the thing you don't want to do it's not really a great idea to use a
beta version on your main workstation because so many of the PPAs out there
don't work with it they expect you to be on a released version of Ubuntu so as
soon as you start setting up PPAs for like themes or like a calendar widget or
whatever you just start getting 404s in your app get update like an animal
constantly it's just a horrible mess and then you end up like you know having to
go out there and pull some of them out so that was a bit disappointing things
like telegram not working sort of were deal breakers for me and I ended up
going back with Antigros because it was it was so early in the process I could
jump back so now I'm sort of at square square zero and sort of setting up and
trying to get advice from the audience on what should I try because I haven't
set this machine up in about a year and a half so what would you try at this
point and I've already got some base stuff on there but I have to say it was
pretty slick so here's a couple of things I did in Ubuntu Mate 1504
because I use Ubuntu or I'm sorry mate tweak to turn on compass and to set my
style so it had like a more of a bar layout that I liked quite a bit and that
was really really easy to set up really slick I decided I opted to use the new
mate menu and I was pleased to see the super key activated that so I was all
really good to know the main problems I ran into with the mate menu were like
sometimes when I did the super key it would pop up behind other windows so
when I would type I couldn't see the results and sometimes it was a little
delayed and popping up so I'd probably still if I was gonna stick with that
desktop I would probably use a dedicated launcher like synapse or gnome do or
whatever the hell but it's it's such a nice setup like I was using that and I
could physically just felt my computer was like it felt like it was running
faster and I really was impressed by that so Ubuntu Mate edition 1504 is
looking really sharp I ended up keeping it on the computer I'm setting up for my
son so he'll be running that for a while and I'm now running Antigros with
gnome 3 on my main office workstation and it was tough it was tough it was
really tough now did anybody catch that error message and maybe what was the
problem oh you did poppy yeah so how long did you leave it after the four
minutes I actually left it overnight and it is that night yeah and it just kept
repeating the same message interesting so my home server running butterFS does
that now and again and all I do but that's after it's booted like and it's
fine and it's up I just SSH in an echo zero as it says and then I never see
that error message again because it's only an informational message to say
yeah holy crap there's a truckload of IO going well now here's what I think it is
busy I think blackout 24 is calling it right now in the IRC and I think roof
chicken in our subreddit called it another better fest gotcha has been
added to the gotcha wiki entry for butterFS that's how I see it stable
kernel versions 3.19.1 can cause a deadlock at mount time that's one of the
new gotchas in the butterFS and I think this is exactly what happened to me I
think this is I think as I'm on a rolling release I'm on a rolling release
they wanted the packages with systemd and butterFS right what's that and they
want to do the packages with systemd and better yeah yeah yeah yeah I so there
are workarounds is so if I would have looked this up there's workarounds but
you know what this is what I came to I am so effing done with effing butterFS
it is not even funny so when I I was like you know what I don't care that I
can fix this I'm going XFS so what I decided to do is my boot partition which
is about 250 megabytes is extended for everything else on the system is XFS my
my root file system my home partition my editing partitions my gaming all XFS
only XFS butterFS is dead to me this is the second system I have to quote unquote
kind of soft loss to butterFS as in I could have fixed it if I really effing
wanted to in the bonobos case I would have had to format and in this case I
would have had to do a workaround for the timeout it's stupid it's a clown
file system it's nowhere near ready close to quality of ZFS and XFS has a
rich history behind it and probably has another 20 years left of development in
it so for my taste I'm going XFS on everything that's important to me my
back-end storage I'm not even going to use a Linux file system I'm going to use
ZFS well that makes sense to me for a number of reasons one thing that I
thought was interesting is that when you all these butterFS issues it doesn't
after a while feel like you're almost a battered spouse I mean it's it's it I
mean I realize in some scenarios it's fine and I realize if you have great
backups it's fine but yeah it's it is because because it's like well I can fix
it well he's gonna he's gonna change you know it's essentially what this is well
you could you know you just got to give it you just got to deal with this one
issue and it'll be better tomorrow because that's essentially what it is
you know so often though and so often like generally software improves but
here so fedora 22 the server spin of fedora will be using XFS by default
rather than extended for using XFS has been the default within LVM as part of
the fedora server technical spec while fedora 22 it's finally going to go
official the default layout for door server 22 installations will be using
XFS atop of LVM while boot is outside the LVM setup it's exactly what I'm
doing the boot is gonna be extended for outside that and I'm gonna go just XFS
and I'm gonna use LVM to do my my drives and this is I'm done I'm done with
butter fs I'm just gonna use LVM and XFS and call it good and and I just feel
like you can consider me the canary in the coal mine or not I at this point
will not be recommending butter fs to listeners I tried it on and I still have
the scary thing is that what I'm worried about now is I still have very
important computers in production using butter fs that is frightening because I
need to think about it I mean at the end of the day you're talking about using a
file system not an application if you're if the file systems got issues that need
to be corrected there's red flags all over that I'm sorry so yeah forget that
nope anybody in the room any any any opinions or thoughts on the files on top
before I move on to the software section and here I am on XD for perfectly fine
yeah I suppose I think I like about XFS is and and I you know we've gone in
great detail before but yes it's very fast it handles fragmentation better too
oh does it and I've actually used XFS in production years ago back when like
extended to was going to extended 3 and riser fs was still pretty popular and I
had I really never had any problems with it and yeah core OS is also yeah disk
full errors yes exactly yes I know I know core OS is ran into the same issues
and so if you are not really familiar with XFS does it sound like an alien
file system to you well there is a really really comprehensive write-up on
lwn.net that I will share I guess as a subscriber I can share a free link I
don't know if there's a limit or how it works but so I put a free link in the
show notes because they just wrote it on the first by Jake edge and it covers the
background of XFS how it came from iris the shift of XFS is development to
Linux really back in 2001 and in 2002 it was merged into Linux kernel 2.5 3 6 so
it's been a available Linux kernel file system since kernel 2.5 dot 3 6 that's
way longer than butter FS and the fundamentals of a file system is is you
really don't consider a file system to be production ready until it's been in
use you know five seven years I mean that's what conservative people that
trust their do want to be able to trust their data considered butter FS
obviously doesn't meet that level of a qualification XFS does and I think
Linux is in a pretty pretty pretty pretty pathetic file system state from
butter FS Gloucester FS extended for just being sort of a stopgap measure the
fact that we can't get ZFS into the Linux kernel where the hell is that
gonna leave Linux file systems in five to ten years it's pretty pathetic and
I'm not so sure butter FS is gonna get there maybe maybe it will but I's not
gonna get there for me and I think there's other distribute I'm sorry other
operating systems that are way ahead of Linux right now in this area and I think
it's kind of pathetic actually actually there is things in the
baking area I know that it that we kind of everything in the baking section and
just a few minutes ago just a few minutes ago you're the Market League guy
with Docker and now you this is seriously this is why it's pathetic and
this is why I'm actually a little panicky about it is because Linux needs
to be about five to seven years into a effing incredible file system right now
because you can't even really seriously consider a file system until it's been
in widespread production for a few years and I'm sorry but butter FS at Facebook
isn't gonna cut it for me anymore I don't know if they have you know what I
think it is I think Facebook has to narrow the usage range to really be
putting butter fester its paces at scale it really is about different usages like
when you're talking about in the server side people care about one thing when
you're talking about the desktop side people care about the other thing so I
don't know when you say ZFS maybe on the server side currently is years ahead in
so many ways but when you're talking about having your system being using
Linux all over of course people are trying things that work with Linux right
I think that's why there is a big push for butter fests otherwise people
wouldn't care I think a file system that has ghost metadata that eats up your
system and says drive is full affects laptops phones and servers and VPS is
that's why I think and I think and I think a file system that falls apart
when you update your kernel and has to have an ever-expanding of gotchas that
include constant regressions is not a production ready file system and those
things like desktop Linux service I don't care what your use case is the
only you know I'm asking just how many laptops are being shipped with one with
Linux and two with better if you answer that this is my point we don't have an
answer to that question there is no answer to that question like we want to
be doing those things well are we gonna ship it with butter no of course not we
can't we don't have a serious file system yeah I disagree on that stance
though at this point it probably be safer than a regular user a regular user
ext4 does whatever fine yeah you know what HFS does whatever you need to HFS
fight it plus is fine it's fine most people don't care I would rather
present I would rather use NTFS I don't of course most people don't care that's
all we talk about is things that most people don't care about that's our
entire world is things most people don't care about we care though we should care
and Linux should be better this is the world's premier open source operating
system and we have the biggest joke file system in on the planet it is a joke
since we don't have the desktop market share I think that the fact that there
is one efforts in the direction of having something that will work for the
desktop as well and something that does work for the server space I think it's
having in the baking stage something that is progressively improving is good
since we don't have the desktop market share I mean we will have the things to
enter that market with strong with strength we currently are not in the
market but it's not because of the file system because if that was the cause the
only reason we weren't in the desktop no I think it'd be silly to talk about that
what's really more important is the server market share that we're gonna
lose to freeBSD and ZFS but Ryan I wanted to give you a chance to talk
about your concerns with butter FS well I've had one bad experience but to be
honest it was similar to yours where I was running something that was you know
living up on the bleeding edge but I I've had this laptop that I've been
running it's a system 76 laptop and I've been running butter FS and not running
arch I'm I'm running I jump between evolve and or salute sorry and arch and
I've never and I've net or not arch Ubuntu and I've never had a problem so
far maybe it's because I'm not sitting right there on the bleeding I would say
too if you're gonna here's my pit is my bit of advice if you want to use butter
FS use an LTS kernel I think it'll probably be safer because I don't think
the LTS kernels are going to introduce major butter FS errors so if you're if
you've decided that butter FS is fancy enough for you you maybe want to
consider an LTS kernel here's what I've decided to do so I'm going to do rolling
release again but I'm going to stick with a better file system XFS currently
running gnome 3.14.2 with Chrome and Firefox and basic packages like
Samba fuse Dropbox infatality fonts handbrake fish get her a pad YouTube
download I have I have a couple of things I wanted to get your all opinion
on here I've got two 600 gigabyte 10k rpm SATA drives that I would like to
software mirror or something to use for my editing and Steam library and I was
curious with the mumble room thought I should use as far as software rate
currently my thought was LVM and then format it with XFS but you know there's
MDM admin there's a lot of there's a lot of ways to skin that cat under Linux so
does the mumble room have any opinions on the best way to take advantage of
those two 600 gigabyte drives more and remember better FS I've actually gotten
that suggestion and I'm going more for speed not redundancy so I probably use
like a raid zero no okay well I think I'm gonna do LVM well if you if you want
to get change to happen in this area you know it's gonna it's gonna take
conversations in the community like this one and with you know those guys who run
the different distributions like I key and now other people contribute to
distributions of trying to decide you know what what really serves the end
user best at least in the desktop space in the in the server space they think
about about this more they've already made decisions yeah yeah sure I think in
the desktop actually overlay FS has a a very ten they can make it actually
happen it's one of the most appealing things it's like you having the ability
to section to have sections in your file system you don't have much work or
configuration to do which deal with different data differently like media
files being headed handled internally as larger blocks and that's faster to
access those and smaller files to have like there are the system files to have
redundancy butter up s like yeah this is are the capabilities that that file
system has you know for a regular user probably matter more because he doesn't
want to manage things he just wants to have the diversity of files he uses
directly and use it and still have same speed or better speed for each type of
file specifically so I think that there's no other place currently doing a file
system like that so that could be something maybe like to toy around with
that's that sounds like you know that could be an area to play with some more
I've noticed a couple common packages that I don't currently use at the
audience is using a lot of in this subreddit thread our torrent seems to be
the popular bit torrent client followed by Q torrent yeah that would be yeah not
too surprising a lot of people using fish the term of the shell I use fish as
well fish shell so that's not and a lot of M player or MPV and I've noticed a
course a lot of a lot of things like redshift or x-files VLC gnome tweaks of
course emacs and pi samba plex steam so here I when I when I first get my what
my machine set up I find I have to do a couple of things first I install packer
or pack a you are then I install Dropbox and then I install Chrome and that that
gets me super far Chrome and Dropbox alone I'm a little ashamed to say have
really made reloading my machines a lot simpler and then after that I layer on
bit torrent sync or whatever likes or C file and out for this machine this
machine uses C file and I don't know how comfortable I am with that so I'm
getting my does feel like you're married to it a little bit right because if it
something if something goes away Dropbox does a does a wonky and whatever is no
longer an option then what you know it's like here's my free Linux workstation
that becomes functional because I set up Dropbox and Chrome yeah no area feels a
little bit then again maybe I just not something I shouldn't worry about I I
don't know but it's within a couple hours I was able to get up and running
again and it does the AR doesn't make getting software installed very fast but
I ended up going with gnome 3 simply because I'm looking forward to gnome 16
but I seriously considered just going mate I wonder if I would be able to get
a mattei experience as good as the Ubuntu mattei one I don't know if I
would maybe I'd be left a little a little unsatisfied so I went gnome 3
because I want to try out gnome 3.16 now the only big piece I'm missing is like
what should I do in case this ever happens again I know I don't like should
I do DD backups should I do image backups using like a part image or or
clonezilla I mean what should I do I think I think if it's a machine that you
need up and running like in a reason without having to screw with it I think
yeah I think an image backup makes sense in that regard but at the same time you
then have to think about okay are you what are you backing up are you backing
up actual data partitions as far as like your user data which obviously that
needs to be far more frequently in the weekly you might be doing with your when
I almost wonder like would it be possible to do something like like oh my
drive died I just plug in this USB Drive and I could literally just boot from
that you could yeah you had something our snapshot go tell me about that I know
I'm so familiar with it yeah if you're backing up you talk about backing up
data or bare metal restore I don't know I'm curious maybe I actually want to go
full bare metal just for total like you know all my software's right back where
it is everything's totally configured yeah so you were saying about you depend
on Chrome and Dropbox so I depend on Firefox last pass yeah and then still at
the moment bit torrent sink which which I use for sinking my roaming profiles
and once I bring so I need Firefox bt-sync to get to my password for my
main bt-sync server to get my keys and then sync my roaming profile and once
I've got that I'm back up and running you know all of my applications are
configured so I don't need to do a bare metal restore I can do a fresh install
and then just plunk my profile I am considering just doing to go I am
considering just doing that but it's I I feel like there's all such a long tail
of configuration after a clean install because I have so many little things I
need to do so many little tools that I have to install that it feels like if I
could just if I could just plug something in and almost lose no time it
would be such a nice dream so yeah well our snapshots great for you know
incremental backups of your like your home directory for example your first
backup is a full backup and everything thereafter is an incremental and it uses
hard links so it uses rsync underneath and hard linking so that the subsequent
backups are only the incrementals and consequently because it's all hard
linked you just go to any dated folder and you can just copy the whole thing
you know out of there so you can rsync the whole backup folder at whatever
point you want to restore and it all is just there simple so there's no you know
untar it find this version what was my encryption phrase you know so if you
want to stick it on an encrypted USB Drive that's kind of simple and then
you've got things like deja jupe if you want to send it offline you know fully
encrypted and duplicity is what runs underneath that yeah yeah yeah I'm a
duplicity guy myself I just can't decide like do I want just the data because I
kind of have the data solved now through different sync services or do I really
want like a full turnkey plug this USB Drive in and I boot up solution I feel
like that's kind of the way I go and I'm not sure well maybe we're overthinking
it maybe you just need a generic setup on a let's say an external drive okay
it's blank it's empty it has no personality at all and then you're
syncing your profiles to that drive oh shit everything went to hell okay whoop
do I plug in that drive grab my escape hatch you're done it literally takes it
yeah just and the entire top downtime is as fast as it takes to boot up into it
yeah Mondo rescue micro 89 and the chairman's that pointed out Mondo rescue
which is one that I've talked about a couple of times
fond of school I don't know if there is the project still getting updated I
think it is this Mondo rescue version 3.2.0 came out on 2015 of January 3rd
then there's also like what Amanda I think so you know what I might give
Mondo a try after the show tonight yeah yeah yeah there's a few other ones but
I'm just saying for the short term consider that though I mean literally
it's it's yeah it solves all your issues quickly yeah we've done you know give me
up there's just I'm worried about the fine nuances of all like like having
like all my cheapy-cheeky set up and Thunderbird and getting like you know
all my programs like take a lot of custom versions of wine and I would do
both because I'm paranoid I would do both because then you have your nuances
done with your imaging but then at the end it's like okay I don't really have
time to wait for that restoration I just need a plug-and-go yeah there's then you
have you have a quick and dirty machine yeah there W you want to make a comment
on torrent clients yeah I just like to mention tribbler tribbler org it's a
kind of a new project and they are pretty much backing up using the same
similar infrastructure to tour mmm and it's like for you to search torrents so
you don't have to go to the tracker anymore and pretty much making it
possible to shut down crackers interesting Wow I just linked in chat
Ryan like that's an interesting problem or TRI BLER Ryan you had a comment on
building backup into Linux yeah I mean what a I key has said before that he's
been considering and working on something throwing something into solace
right into the actual distribution that can handle backups I know that we're
going to add a boom to one and there was really the perks to that but but we
really are lacking in in it's something that's built into the the actual
operating system that allows you to do all sorts of things like jump back you
know easily to a previous state and also you know the handle your normal backup
and so definitely a great feature add to for a distro to bring in say look our
distro has really solved this problem you know what maybe I should do Matt
maybe this would solve my problem I got an idea I should just get my butt over
to Linux Academy they've got courses on backing up your Linux rig billing with
our sync or whatever else you might need go to Linux Academy comm slash unplug
get our special 33% discount Linux Academy is a sponsor of the unplug
program because they know you guys are exactly the audience they need to reach
out to and I love the fact they're giving you a 33% discount to really make
sure you go try it that's a great value because they keep adding content all the
time plus you get access to their entire content catalog you're gonna get
step-by-step video courses downloadable comprehensive study guides and when you
need it there's their labs just spin up for you your server on demand you get
SSH access to that bad boy and you're working with the real technology plus
since you're choosing from seven plus Linux distributions you're either gonna
be familiar with your environment you're gonna help bridge the knowledge gap you
need to take over a different environment you get to keep track of
your progress as you go along I think this is a really nice dashboard it's
really sweet system and they can also help give you a little reminders like
hey bro you got a test coming up you should probably study I'd be like oh
thanks Linux Academy you're right I will study it's nice they have so many great
courses too and they really follow the industry trends to make sure that the
technology that they're covering is the technology you could go out and
implement and get a job get get educated or maybe even get certified they have so
many great success stories I have this one here about from they have the LPIC
one and Linux plus exams now you can go take them at Linux Academy and then go
take the certification to be officially certified that's pretty cool and in fact
they have another big thing coming up on April 16th at 9 p.m. Central a big
content update over at Linux Academy new stuff coming all the time it's a really
cool platform with solutions available for those of you have very very limited
time and trust me I know how that feels for those of you have a lot of time on
your hands they have great packages for you as well they have community members
that are packed full of JB audience members that can help you when you're
having a hard time and they have people that are genuinely passionate about the
subject material linuxacademy.com slash on plugs take it up a notch big thanks
to links getting for sponsoring the unplug program and touching on them a
little bit here recently someone pointed out to me something I didn't know and
they actually have courseware helping you to find work after you've been
certified yes it's level associate but yeah they actually it's literally how to
get a Linux job it's pretty cool and it's my guy does iron lots of lots of
relevant stuff there that just make the resume look great as well so we have
we've been dancing around at this whole episode but the solo s or I'm sorry
there's a new project out there everybody's called solos
don't call evolve OS anymore no sir no sir the project name has changed to
avoid unnecessary legal action so we have Aiki and Ryan here Aiki do you want
to tell us what happened yeah I really loved how this is really gone so on
April Fool's Day of all days I basically got an email come through and it said
that I was getting a letter coming through as well which is like okay this
is just pure lows I was like okay so I ended up phoning up the people involved
you know independently finding the the phone number for this place separately
and it actually does check out so I was like so the trademark is very very much
specific to the UK so a couple of months ago we were having problems with people
completely unrelated incident by the way but we were having problems with people
you know trying to assert ownership over the brand so I took a couple of steps
and I basically went ahead and put in a trademark application not to be a
painting troll but just to stop people trying to pull one over on the project
so that was like in the UK that happens for a couple of months and it's put up
so people can you know they can object to it and say hey we own that which
someone did and it's held by the Secretary of State in the UK and they
own the trademark for OS and which I did not see coming Wow Wow I could
understand if it was evolve like when I was reading through the letter I was
looking for the word evolve but no it was for OS I was like are you kidding me
that's so yeah I mean that absolutely and not least sucks I was like you know
that's one thing that Linux projects are traditionally done to to avoid that
kind of thing and like have a suffix of OS or Linux or something like that so
yeah I mean that absolutely and not least sucks so we went through on Google
Plus for a couple of well I think it's about two days asking for suggestions
to an IRC and you know we got absolutely nowhere with a with a fitting name so I
just went back to a name that we've used before which was Solus but without the
OS part okay so you're saying that elementary OS is also violating that
trademark no that's not what I'm saying this is UK specific right yeah no it's
not an instant it's not an international trademark this is a UK application so
this doesn't affect anyone else abroad and because the project doesn't have a
legal entity I am that that legal entity so I represent it and even if I had like
the the trademark and the website and everything done abroad I'm still
operating in this country and you know I still fall under UK legislation so I
can't use that suffix which absolutely sucks but you know you adapt yeah that's
a hell of an April Fool's Day and so how has the community responded to the name
change everybody must be pretty understanding I would assume luckily
yeah and you know that does help like surefire way to kill your project so
there's been you know there's been a few misconceptions about this I did a did a
couple of posts on Google Plus one of them was compound irony which which you
posted on as well and so I mean everyone's been pretty good about it
the the media as it were haven't done such a good job you know they're saying
it's you know it's totally unrelated to the the old soulless West project which
is nonsense because mm-hmm evolve it's really hard not to say that so that that
came from the exact same code base as soulless OS the original soulless West
and we've sold well soulless West too so you know it was always a continuation of
under a different name but it was the only name I could go back to that people
still understand I'm not getting into trouble so now it's the soulless
operating system not soulless OS and you know if people want to abbreviate that I
can't stop them right it's solace it's the soulless project though to be clear
so the well it's the the distro part of it is the soulless operating system it's
run by the soulless project which is not a company or anything like that it's
just the soulless project which also wants the budget desktop project and
things like that it was the only conceivable way I could come up with to
get out of it yes as someone's asked a question on IRC why not evolve
operating system so when I was looking into the whole name change thing it
basically if we reduced our name or took away the uniqueness of it as in evolve
OS there happens to be this game called evolve so yeah so it's like come on you
could just lowercase the OS instead of being a suffix it's part of the name so
it's evolving loss I'd kind of like to add here that the community at least the
community members I spoke to who are already active in the project especially
like the art team actually really enjoyed the opportunity to especially
the art team actually enjoyed the opportunity to to take this as an up
because the evolve you know as it stands is is when you think of evolve you think
of like evolution itself and and these differences like that where as soulless
has its own it's its own thing so it allows a lot more branding opportunities
that that don't aren't necessarily tied tied down to that paradigm and
everything and so I know that's not that's kind of not really any technical
thing but but at least one sector of the community actually avoid the chance to
reinvent and and have fun with it and and that's that's a good you know get it
the community seems to have undid that they were trying to be really help
during the rename and then now they're they I didn't hear anybody really say
this is you know bullshit I'm leaving there they just they kind of followed us
in what else can you do really the new yeah age yeah it's not like it's your
choice true so I mean they just you know it's understandable and it's it's it's
just hard because you need it you don't even I've never even thought of that you
guys so it's understandable that that mistake could be made to begin with you
know I'm that that's that's a hard hard way to go but you know it's not the name
it's not the name that makes the project it's right I think you guys would be
alright so we'll fit we'll follow I have in the show notes I have links to the
new solace project community page on Google Plus so there's a new community
page for people to follow and I have a link to that in the show notes and if
you guys want to share any other links people needed to catch just drop them in
the IRC and I'll grab them I'll put them in the show notes too and then just stop
by and let's know how it's going yeah it's supposed to the link that helps searching
for trademarks across the world just the you which might come in handy tmdn.org
and I will add a link to that in the show notes as well tmdn.org and
speaking of links in the show notes if you got bit by that butter fs kernel
3.19 timeout lockup issue thingy I just got tweeted by somebody that did I'll
have a link to the fix that you could apply so that way you don't have to
reload your whole rigamidig I'll have a link to that in the show notes as well
because that's not a lot of fun and also don't forget there's also that great
piece from LWN on XFS I'm just saying XFS for the future XFS for the next 20
years ZFS for everything else that's all I have to say about that alright guys
Matt is there anything else we need to cover before we get out here any other
shenanigans am I forgetting no I can't think of anything specifically if you
guys want to follow the things stuff I'm doing I'm always at matthartley.com
I do have a couple new things coming out so subscribe via email or Facebook or
Google Plus yeah and don't forget you also be able to see Matt and I at Linux
Fest Northwest Linux Fest Northwest thanks I mentioned it oh and you could
talk to us live why don't you just come hang out with us live right now in our
virtual log over to jblive.tv on a Tuesday we do this show at 2 p.m.
Pacific show up around 1 31 o'clock Pacific Pacific time I know right go to
jupiterbroadcasting.com plus counter get it converted to your local time
LinuxActionShow.reddit.com is how you make this show better when you can't be
here and contribute we also have feedback threads over there love to hear
your thoughts and all that stuff including the thread on the things I
should install on my rig reload right all right Matt I'll talk to you next
week all right see you then all right everybody thank you so much for tuning
this week's episode of Linux Unplugged we'll see you right back here for
episode 88 next week
I won't lie though there's nothing like that fresh install feeling it's like
it's like underwear right out of the dryer right yeah it is and I installed
the Nvidia package and I immediately it could feel like it wasn't right like
something's not right oh I forgot I forgot libgl go I install that and then
I reboot again boom now I got a nice smooth accelerated desktop like oh yeah
it's feeling good it's feeling fresh yeah I think that's nice I think it
feels real good and real tight you know and like I could just install just the
stuff I need so I only like one so it's just real clean like I only have a few
icons in my side dock it's looking tight I like it a lot
hey JBTitles.com yeah I'm going to be sending you an email with some
pictures of an Internet of Things device that I've been building with a group
over here I think you'll like it is it a sex toy no but it's built entirely on
Linux and if all the code base will be open source and maybe we can send you it
is hardware so maybe we can send you a little unit to play around with I was kind of looking
forward to like a saddle with a pie attached or something right we can't tell you not to use it for that
purpose wow like you've got my email address right all right so butter fs
meltdowns not bad take solace and solace is not bad I found the link that we
mentioned in the beginning yeah oh yeah yeah yeah right yes there's a Microsoft
Linux version one yeah tell me about it I couldn't find I couldn't find in their
blog but I found at least in the answers maybe it was moved to the answers or for
some reason I found it that related somehow installing Windows 8 after eight
years of Linux let me share my experiences Windows 8 after using Linux
only for eight years oh my gosh oh it's long I know me a favor drop that in the
yeah it's not a fix but it might make it to where you're not bumping up against it
gives a little bit of a delay and it works it's a hardware fix sin client is
our friend huh so what do you okay so we could do what happened to evolve OS
well that's not bad yeah we could also do something that's like warning people
about butter fs issues because it could be people listening that run into this
problem this week I'm sure it sounds like it's pretty easy to stumble upon I
mean it's a file system thing that's kind of a big yeah it's using kernel
319 and butter fs right that's kind of being that's isn't this gonna be brutal
for a little while as people update is this not gonna be a thing or am I
missing something well this isn't like oh my Wi-Fi went down or something well
yeah I mean or distros won't upgrade to kernel 319 or something like that but if
you're on a if you're on a rolling release or a beta release